content/index.md, before:

---
type: home
---

<span style="border-radius: 10px; padding: -10px; display: block; overflow: hidden; float: right; padding: 0px; margin-left: 20px;">
![Photo](/myphoto.jpg)
</span>

# Hello!

I am a software engineer and programming languages researcher living in New York City.  I work at
[Originate NYC](http://www.originate.com/), and was previously at [MIT](http://plv.csail.mit.edu/)
and at [Yale](http://cpsc.yale.edu/). You can find some of the things that I've worked on below<!-- , or -->
<!-- read new posts to this site as [a blog](/blog) -->. Feel free to [drop me a line](mailto:antonis DOT 
stampoulis AT gmail DOT com)!

## Research

* [Makam](/makam), a meta-language meant for prototyping and experimenting with new programming language ideas,
and as an educational tool for teaching programming language concepts like type systems, compilation, etc.
I started building Makam during my post-doc at MIT and I continue to work on it during my
[20% time at Originate](http://www.originate.com/stories/20-percent-time-done-right).

* [VeriML](/veriml) is the language I designed and built for my Ph.D. It is motivated by the need
for building formal proofs in a scalable way, in the context of software verification.

* I've also worked on designing and implementing an efficient field-sensitive pointer analysis for
  the [Windows Static Driver Verifier](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/projects/slam/) while at
  Microsoft Research.

## Others

* Some of my [old projects](/oldprojects) from my days at the [NTUA](http://www.ece.ntua.gr/).

* For official purposes, my name is Antonios Michael Stampoulis; for all other purposes, I use
the informal version of my first name, Antonis. In Greek, my name is written as <span
style="font-family: 'Helvetica', 'Arial', sans;">Αντώνης Σταμπούλης</span>.

* Links to friends' pages: [Erato Kremmyda](http://www.eratoAkremmyda.com),
  [Argyro Katsika](http://www.ling.uni-potsdam.de/~katsika/),
  [Mihalis Maniatakos](http://nyuad.nyu.edu/en/academics/faculty/michail-maniatakos.html),
  [Thanassis Bamis](http://www.engr.uconn.edu/~bam11008/).

Commit message:

switch to makam-webui and first makam blog post

content/index.md, after:

---
type: home
---

<span style="border-radius: 10px; padding: -10px; display: block; overflow: hidden; float: right; padding: 0px; margin-left: 20px;">
![Photo](/myphoto.jpg)
</span>

# Hello!

I am a software engineer and programming languages researcher living in New York City.  I work at
[Originate NYC](http://www.originate.com/), and was previously at [MIT](http://plv.csail.mit.edu/)
and at [Yale](http://cpsc.yale.edu/). You can find some of the things that I've worked on below , or
read new posts to this site as [a blog](/blog). Feel free to [drop me a line]({{< mailto-url >}})!

## Research

* [Makam](/makam), a meta-language meant for prototyping and experimenting with new programming language ideas,
and as an educational tool for teaching programming language concepts like type systems, compilation, etc.
I started building Makam during my post-doc at MIT and I continue to work on it during my
[20% time at Originate](http://www.originate.com/stories/20-percent-time-done-right).

* [VeriML](/veriml) is the language I designed and built for my Ph.D. It is motivated by the need
for building formal proofs in a scalable way, in the context of software verification.

* I've also worked on designing and implementing an efficient field-sensitive pointer analysis for
  the [Windows Static Driver Verifier](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/projects/slam/) while at
  Microsoft Research.

## Others

* Some of my [old projects](/oldprojects) from my days at the [NTUA](http://www.ece.ntua.gr/).

* For official purposes, my name is Antonios Michael Stampoulis; for all other purposes, I use
the informal version of my first name, Antonis. In Greek, my name is written as <span
style="font-family: 'Helvetica', 'Arial', sans;">Αντώνης Σταμπούλης</span>.

* Links to friends' pages: [Erato Kremmyda](http://www.eratoAkremmyda.com),
  [Argyro Katsika](http://www.ling.uni-potsdam.de/~katsika/),
  [Mihalis Maniatakos](http://nyuad.nyu.edu/en/academics/faculty/michail-maniatakos.html),
  [Thanassis Bamis](http://www.engr.uconn.edu/~bam11008/).
